with resistors declaring I'm totally on
the policy the shot has turned sideways
but we could not help this there are a
great number of police officers this is
a huge building around 10 floors stalls
where coronavirus patients are brought
they reserved this back door for
bringing in people who have a fever
taking them through some convoluted path
to separate these people from other
patients only then can you enter the
facility where they treat the patients
or those suspected to be coronavirus
patients
[Music]
so here's the situation I was detained
and I spent the entire day with the
police I'm not going to tell you
everything now because up to now I've
been accompanied in my travels from town
to town my friends everything you are
about to see will also have interviewed
by the Chinese officers who now have my
name my address and all my personal
information so first and foremost I want
to express my great gratitude to the
Chinese police for seriously taking all
the measures to fight coronavirus as
well as for their careful examination of
the contents of my backpack and after
which they returned it with several
flash drives that still contained some
footage at the end of this video I will
tell you how it went so remember my
friends that everything I'm going to
tell you here has already been heard by
the brave Chinese police officers my
friends I am Li out of and I'm in China
right now I intend to go to the who Bay
province which as many of you know
already is described as a source of
coronavirus this is where the city of
Wuhan is for the coronavirus story
started I want to see how the people
they are living
don't get me wrong I'm not crazy I
studied the medical side of the issue
quite carefully so I know what I'm doing
the most difficult part now is not the
virus but the Chinese police first of
all the Chinese have one of the world's
most vigilant police forces presently
they're being especially careful to
catch anyone who films anything at all
in the proximity of the blue Bay border
so let's see what becomes of this
chyna zone of infection there are cases
of corona virus infection in Thailand
Australia Japan Malaysia Singapore there
are already several infected people in
other parts of the world like Europe
France or Canada and one person died in
America a number of startling videos
with people shaking with fever falling
to the ground before they can stretch
their arms forward and other weird stuff
has made the corona virus issue into the
most discussed topic in the latest
months but in reality the world's media
outlets garner attention by showing guys
walking around China and cooler bottles
building portable plastic houses
wrapping themselves in diapers or in a
bra rather than trying to figure out if
the new virus is actually as dangerous
as the sensational news says it is the
fact that half of these videos are
absolutely faked like this alleged
coronavirus panic where people are not
actually wearing masks and it is in fact
the warm season not winter does not seem
to bother anyone
the main problem concerning the new
virus is that there are almost no
scientifically proven facts about it one
of the few tangible results of any
research showed that the transmission
area around an infected person is six
feet you can catch it not just by being
coughed at it takes just the tiniest of
saliva that flies out of the mouse when
soin speaks we cannot even see it the
symptoms we know now are coughing
diarrhea vomiting headache and a
compressed sensation in the chest what
distinguishes the virus from its
predecessors is the speed of
transmission for example if the ordinary
flu affects 45 people in a given period
the new corona virus affects 368
according to the other research data the
corona virus spreads more slowly than
the ordinary flu but it is very
difficult to find out if this is true
and to scientifically prove it the
Chinese authorities do as much as they
can to get people to stay at home and to
be in as little contact with one another
as possible in an attempt to slow the
spread of the virus I'm going to visit a
family these are Russians who live in
China they decided against evacuating
even though they live in a city near the
border of the infected who Bay Province
the problem is I need to get to a
different province but China is doing a
lot to prevent people from moving
anywhere around the country right now
one cannot drive from one province to
another in order for citizens and
visitors to know about any coronavirus
danger zones the Chinese made an iPhone
app where you can see where coronavirus
cases are in order for citizens and
visitors snow about ending coronavirus
danger zones the Chinese made an app for
iPhone where you can see where
coronavirus cases are the app will show
its user the precise location where the
case occurred making the exact street
intersection and building or home where
the infected people were found the city
I am travelling to looks like this
[Music]
you can still move from one province to
another by train this is because it is
easier to control passenger traffic
before any passenger boards the Train he
or she has his body temperature TechEd
and the passenger has asked if he or she
has been to the hoob a province the
closer you get to an infected zone the
fewer people are on the streets for
example this is how shanghai looks
presently its population is twice as big
as Moscow over 24 million this is the
famous downtown Shanghai these are
offices and headquarters of some of the
biggest enterprises in the world so this
is one of the busiest spots in the city
with permanently active traffic but now
we see how this place looks the roads
are empty sometimes a few cars go by the
public transportation is functioning at
the same time there are hardly any
people on the street the Central Park is
nearby this is one of the most popular
places among both tourists and locals
normally it there are a lot of
pedestrians there now there is
absolutely no one
[Music]
[Applause]
to put this in perspective this is how
these roads used to look before now
movie theaters and stores are closed the
same goes for many cafes and restaurants
some places are operating but I have the
impression that only one place out of
every 10 or 15 is most people come out
only because they have to here's a
traffic controller wearing a mask and
goggles the corona virus can be
transmitted through mucus it takes just
one scratch of an eye to get infected
this is a pedestrian zone there is not a
single soul nobody at all
there are occasional people in cars but
you can see almost no one walking you
can encounter an occasional janitor who
has nothing to clean because there is no
one out on the street to litter
[Music]
there are non-operating escalators empty
bus stops and bicycles lying on the
ground parks are closed with locking
iron fencing the police patrol all the
major streets nobody laughs smiles or
orders a word unless it is necessary in
some Chinese cities tents like this have
popped up or food is being sold there
are selling cooked food like chicken
beef and various other types of meat
normally these people work in hotel
restaurants but now they have
practically no clientele so they cook
and sell their meals on the streets with
many stores in this neighborhood now
closed
such prepared food is in great demand
plus doing this enables restaurants
themselves to keep their businesses open
and to try and remain profitable the
atmosphere is tense as if everyone is
waiting for something horrible to happen
in downtown Shanghai many places where
people normally gather are now closed
one example is the central ice skating
rink right behind me
locals and tourists were just skating
here in January now not only is there
nobody here but any path to the rink are
blocked with these white fences there is
just one lone man who is wiping this
fencing in the movies such scenes
normally show that that people know that
a meteorite is about to strike here but
they do not know when exactly I'm now in
a different province where there are
over twice as many cases of coronavirus
infection as there are in Shanghai this
province is closer to the border with
Hubei the main quarantine area as you
can see every single person who gets off
the train is getting scanned with a
thermal imager only after this they are
told if they can go or not
[Music]
on the street it is like being
transported to Silent Hill
it seems as though all the Chinese
people just suddenly moved somewhere
else to be honest it is a bit horrifying
look this is the main highway this is
the city and we see just one car think
about it there is no one here just empty
space Chinese people where are you
just one lonely dog walking down the
road he says what did he say he says we
have to sit in the back we cannot sit
here he's afraid of the infection cab
drivers are taking the biggest risk now
this is how a regular cab driver looks
and move on itself
he keeps sanitizer and mask in the car
and he looks like he has just arrived
from space I'm going to visit the
Russian family I mentioned earlier but
the driver does not drop me off at the
entrance he does not even stop you the
building the most you will do is stop at
the edge of the block
well hello hi we're about to enter our
residential area we will need clearance
to enter so in today's situation you
cannot even come home without clearance
no seriously when you leave the issue a
pass when you return you have to discard
this pass so now you just throw the pass
in the garbage have your temperature
checked and then we will enter the
building
think about this you are at your own
homes entrance and suddenly there's a
tent with an inspector
now you must deal with the checkpoint
system even if you live here you have to
show this ticket each time you leave it
has a stamp on it that proves that you
live here you can only enter if you show
it it's crucial to show this every time
entering and exiting so we have this
unique opportunity I'm tossing this
ticket into the trashcan there we go
that's it at the checkpoint everyone is
monitored by several guards the most
hazardous place to get infected is the
elevator recently I came home from the
grocery store I saw that they first put
tissues here then they ran out of
tissues and put the system in place you
take a toothpick and use it to press the
elevator call button my goodness is this
not to touch the button with your
fingers yes and there's an identical
setup inside the elevator
Wow what a mega life hacker can you
smell the disinfectant yeah it smells
like a hospital this couple moved here
from Russia a year ago Alexey got a job
as a basketball coach
Lilliana as a teacher of English at
first their employer paid their rent
then they started paying themselves it
costs 270 US dollars surprisingly or
maybe not Alexey and Ileana first got
the news of the deadly virus in China
from Russia the first I heard about this
was from my parents yeah the Chinese did
not tell us about it at all mom called
me and said in the news here they are
talking about what is going on in Wuhan
we were like what is happening here in
Wuhan we do not know anything that is
going on here and then we started
reading our local chants
our parents pressured us as hard as they
could as the television was pressuring
them there they said that there was a
state of emergency declared here and
that because of this we were not going
to have any food
every day mom was weeping and trying to
get me to return to Russia this is how a
typical supermarket looks near the
infected zone in China there is no lack
of food the shelves are absolutely
stuffed all the central items are here
however only a few stores are open now
many grocery stores have been closed in
the neighborhood that is why lines start
to go long people have had to stand for
a while there is one line here and
there's another one over there the most
interesting thing about this is that the
prices have not changed am I correct in
saying this yes you are correct the
employees touch everything vegetables
fruit cereals and meat
I hope they wash their hands normally it
is all displayed uncovered but now they
pack everything it's all pre-bagged
normally you just pour it well I see
normally it's all loose does this make
you change how you buy groceries now are
you buying in larger quantities yes I go
shopping once every three to four days I
try to buy more this is so that in case
something goes wrong we have enough food
to last for an extended period of time
we started washing everything we've
bought from the store including bottles
and juice packs we even started peeling
vegetables I mean cucumbers fruits like
apples we started to peel them because
people touch them
the Chinese have a very convenient
purchasing system which is completely
contactless the cashier enters the
amount to pay in the cash register the
customer scans a QR code on their phone
that works as a wallet the amount is
debited automatically this is good
because if you touch a bill that has
been in the hands of an infected person
and then scratch your nose you can get
infected as we walk now everything is
closed in the daytime it is the same
here only two stores are open it looks
like only grocery stores are allowed to
run everything else like hair salons and
some one are closed all over the block
there are these loudspeakers installed
that remind people very persistently not
to leave their homes not to take risks
not to pay visits and not to throw
parties day after day the preventive
measures get tougher for example the day
after we left the number of times one is
allowed to leave their building was
limited to three per week the system is
tougher now they only let you out if you
can name the apartment owner they will
issue a pass for you to go out only once
or twice now I like to go shopping alone
and he buys as much as he can everything
is available for any Chinese preference
for example here is a trough with some
water sniffs probably yields let me
remind you that the coronavirus may have
originated from a snake virus now that I
am next to these guys I hope these are
not the snakes that started this whole
mess now what I mean
it is commonly reported that the virus
originated in the Wuhan market this
version has not been officially
confirmed but seeing the real conditions
here does lend a lot of credence to the
story
Shinx have meat on a tray that is
displayed for sale on the surface of the
street is something very common here
they sell pigeons for butchering frogs
and swimming turtles for dinner as
common as tomatoes for us they're
practically on every second counter here
as you can see this person is getting a
Python and here's some other snakes
here's something for all your foodies a
sheep's head here's something for the
common people barbecued rat there's
thing about Chinese locals that they
only four leg thing they do not eat as a
chair the main local delicacy here is
bad soup and the bats are cooked in a
way that makes them look as if they were
just about to
read their wings and then froze in place
as if they were not boiled fried at all
there's a story let me emphasize just a
supposition we don't know it for sure
that it was because of people eating
these bats that the new virus got spread
Chinese scientists did not discover that
the virus appeared after bats infected
snakes with their own coronavirus this
earlier virus mutated then it eventually
made its way to humans as a result we
are having a real epidemic with 70 1429
reported cases worldwide and 70,000 635
in China and 1772 fatalities due to the
virus has this situation frightened you
of course it has damn anyway you see all
these videos Instagram sends more to me
every day we constantly see our friends
suddenly leaving for Thailand and you're
like damn you just said that you weren't
going anywhere why did you suddenly
change your mind
of course there's fear I examined Marcel
every day to check his temperature I
always run to get a thermometer damn you
worry no matter what even though we
don't go out we're still afraid however
we must make an important point it is
true that we have witnessed a thousand
deaths and about fifty thousand cases of
infection is it true that something
really horrible is coming to kill us all
here are some important statistics to
consider every year the regular seasonal
flu that every one of us has had kills a
surprising 650,000 people
this number is 650 times as many as the
new coronavirus everyone is talking
about this data comes from the most
reputable organization in the world the
World Health Organization there is a
link to who offered below this video you
can check it out for yourself you may
ask how can somebody die of the flu all
you need is a lot of rest a week away
from school or work and you're good to
go according to these statistics most of
the 650,000 flu deaths are in cases of
people over 75 years old as well as
people in the world's poorest regions
like sub-saharan Africa where aspirin
and respiratory masks are extremely hard
to find you will hardly find a piece of
paper containing a prescription some of
these people may never have even seen
soap to wash their hands with the most
common flu victims are people whose
immune system is already weakened by
some disease like diabetes asthma or
chronic lung disease for example if
someone who has a renal impediment comes
down with the flu their kidneys can
simply fail
I was absolutely stunned to learn that
during the most massive flu epidemic
over 550 million people were inflicted
including some people in the Arctic this
was one third of the total global
population at the time in 1918 it was
called Spanish flu approximately fifty
to a hundred million people died flu
victims faces would turn blue they would
start coughing up blood then their lungs
filled with fluid as they died taking
advantage of the technological process
at that time the disease spread
extremely rapidly facilitated by
infected people traveling on trains and
airships in some countries public places
were closed for a year
courts schools churches drama theaters
and movie houses in one u.s. city they
actually banned shaking hands in
Australia a doctor once counted 26
funeral processions in just one hour on
one street hall villages died out in
some towns there was not a single
healthy doctor left sometimes there were
no Undertaker's left to bury the dead
people were buried without coffins or
religious services people swallowed
aspirin and handfuls in some places
doctors prescribed it in doses that were
seven times the norm as a result people
also died because of AstraZeneca this
dosage causes internal bleeding there is
one opinion that it was the Spanish flu
that made World War one and sooner by
weakening millions of people in the
armies of many countries around the
world it is actually a major problem now
to find a driver who will agree to drive
us towards Wuhan we managed to find a
private driver for three days before we
found him everyone refused this is the
only man who agreed what was the first
thing he did when we got in his car he
checked our temperatures we are getting
closer to the infected who Bay province
we are about to pull up at a checkpoint
where we will have our car inspected and
our temperature check be careful they
can see you so I see yeah I'm watching
first they check your temperature then
they order you to pull over there's
going to be something else
some additional inspection
anyone driving in a car toward the
infection zone needs to sign up in a
special quarantine app to avoid long
waiting lines the Chinese Guard's pilot
drones equipped with a large QR code
sign you scan it as you approach the
checkpoint and the app gets installed on
your phone at that point your phone
automatically turns into a GPS tracker
if you enter a closed infected zone they
will be able to locate you no matter
what you do next
cars are sprayed with a water cannon on
the way you see villages that the
residents box with big rocks here is a
whole fence built to keep people out
defense not only communities but also
private garages parking lots and Gardens
as we approach the coronavirus epicenter
in China there are more and more limited
access zones look here they stretched a
ribbon that people must not pass a tent
is installed where inspectors are
sitting a loudspeaker warns everyone
that you are not allowed to cross this
line there is also a squad with a flag
that watches people risky behavior look
here they are now
are you watching to make sure people do
not go here yes in the smaller cities
there are more people on the streets
than there were in Shanghai
[Music]
this is a typical residential area in a
Chinese city next to the entrance doors
are posted a great many posters
describing all the prevention measures
the authorities also asked people to
declare not only your recent visits to
the who Bay Province but also to tell
them anything you know about your
neighbors or anything about anyone else
visiting obey if you're under obligation
to let the authorities know these things
meanwhile life goes on
makeshift markets are working as they
used to here people are selling some
greens and carrots displayed right on
bags resting on the pavement like
there's nothing wrong here markets stay
open and people continue selling their
wares there is some grass here
[Music]
hi sir how is business going there is
nobody
very few people leave their homes now by
the way here I first started to see
people without masks men why aren't you
wearing a mask yeah I took it off and
threw it away it was already used they
say you should not wear the same mask
for a long time so I tossed it
they sell masks in our store but I
didn't buy any the closer you get to
Wuhan the more it feels like the
Chernobyl series on HBO they spray tons
of chemicals on the streets in the
mornings and at night
[Music]
this is how the Chinese services are
disinfecting residential areas this man
is wearing a backpack that contains a
liquid disinfectant he is walking and
disinfecting every square foot of the
sidewalk presently they do this at least
two times a day at some spots where the
infection hazard is elevated they do it
more often
like this they disinfect not just the
sidewalks but also garbage bins doors
and store walls there was no more liquid
left but this woman continues to spray a
flowerpot insistently it was getting
increasingly difficult to film in these
areas even if the police officers do not
notice you these local squads do they
have a million questions for you about
who you are and why are you coming in
line
[Music]
I think he is filming something I think
he is a blogger we just made a stop here
on our way I understand please stay safe
these are very difficult times therefore
when I was near hospitals I tried to get
what footage was possible
[Music]
the shutters turn sideways but we could
not help this there are a great number
of police officers this is a huge
building around 10 floors tall where
coronavirus patients are brought they
reserved this back door for bringing in
people who have a fever taking them
through some convoluted path to separate
these from the other patients you need
to walk around behind the hospital then
go along some back alleys and only then
can you enter the department where they
treat the patients or those suspected of
being coronavirus patients
inside there's a hallway with small
rooms on one set where people get
injected with a huge dose of antibiotics
these rooms are on our right right here
is the place where you can pass the most
accurate test mercury thermometers I
also decided to get checked
[Music]
in this department all the people are
actually walking around in plague
overalls their bases are covered with
see-through shields in addition to the
mouth and nose covering masks generally
most doors are closed and one cannot see
what is behind them it is very difficult
now to find out what is going on inside
these hospitals there are a lot of
videos from hallways like people who
died of the corona virus in zip bags but
it is not possible find out if these are
real the fact is that in the first days
of the outbreak that pressure was
enormous nurses were driven to hysteria
because of the stress the same goes for
doctors if you have a fever or any of
the symptoms you can be quarantined for
two weeks so I think that I was really
lucky I went to check my temperature the
thermometer displayed 99.3 I honestly
want to believe that it is simply
because I got too nervous
[Music]
later on though I had a real opportunity
to become extremely nervous later in a
community several miles from the
prohibited zone border our car was
surrounded by the peoples squad guys
they called the police and then the
nightmare started in the 15 minutes
while we were waiting for the police to
arrive these frenzied activists were
harassing us knocking on the windows
telling us to get out and explain
everything don't go anywhere
stand here the police arrived and
immediately they took my phone away they
took my phone away literally the first
minute they arrived after five minutes
they took my ID 15 minutes into this
ordeal they opened the car doors and
started checking the contents of bags
and then the worst thing happened as the
Chinese police strategy is to simply
wear you out
you wait for hours without anybody
giving you any information about what is
going on they won't tell you anything
for one they started pressuring me
saying that our driver reported us to
them he said that they were going to
another location from the place we were
detained he gave them the name it turned
out that there is a military facility
there of course I had no freaking idea
it was just a coincidence then they
started asking me why I knew the name of
the facility I told them that I did not
know he asked me why I told the driver
to go there in that case but that was
not what I actually called him I told
him take me to any community on the
board with who Bay Province the
quarantine province where you cannot go
all I need to do is see any community I
want to see how people live there so can
you imagine this right some strange dude
comes and is going to film a military
facility this is considered espionage
espionage I do not know the punishment
for espionage according to the Chinese
law but believe me it is definitely not
community service in the end they just
had my ID checked and then they let me
go according to an estimate by
scientists over half a million people
will get infected at the peak of the
epidemic this means that those people
who have been in contact
infected people even though they might
not be themselves at the moment are not
allowed to even leave their houses the
measures taken by the Chinese
authorities do make sense as the virus
is transmitted in a flash and its
victims require a long and expensive
period of treatment their main goal is
to nip the corona virus in the bud
before it destroys the world's largest
economy
[Music]